---
Author: Vizuet Cruz Fernando Ivan
Courses:
  - "2 - Java Programming: Solving Problems with Software"
Modules:
  - 2.1 - Introduction to the Course
Lessons:
  - 2.1.3 - Resources to Help You Succeed
Instructors:
  - Susan H. Rodger
University: Duke University
Finish: true
---
# Introduction

Hi, I'm Elizabeth. I'm part of the instructor team here at Duke University. Before you get started with this course, I want to make sure you're aware of some important resources and give you some tips for doing well. 

# Resources
## Assignments

The assignments in this course will be programming exercises, so you'll practice writing code. Anything labelled programming exercise here in the course content is an assignment and contains instructions to help you write your own program. 

When you finish writing your code, there will be a practice quiz where you can check if your program works properly by comparing your results to answers provided by the instructors. 
## Duke learn to program

I also want to show you the course site [dukelearntoprogram.com](https://www.dukelearntoprogram.com/). You can see we have a page for each course and a page for frequently asked questions about the specialization. This has everything from certificates to the software we use in the course. If you go back to the home page and select the course you are working on, you'll get to that course's main page. So I'm using Course 2 here as an example. What I want to point now are Project Resources, Documentation, and the Frequently Asked Questions page. 

Project Resources is where you can download code to follow along with the video lectures or to begin the assignments. 

Documentation has a summary of the Java methods you'll learn in this course. This is useful if you forget the name of a method, or if you want to find out if there's a Java method to accomplish a particular task. It's not an exhaustive list of all Java methods, it's just a summary of the most useful ones for this course.

Finally, the Frequently Asked Questions, or FAQ page, contains questions specific to this course. For questions about the specialization as a whole, click this link up here.

So hopefully this video has given you and idea of how the course is structured and what resources you'll need to know about. If you have any feedback about how we can make this resources more useful to you, please let us know in the discussion forums on Coursera.

---
# Lesson link

1. [Resources to Help You Succeed](https://www.coursera.org/learn/java-programming/lecture/MtNlQ/resources-to-help-you-succeed)