---
Author: Vizuet Cruz Fernando Ivan
Courses:
  - "2 - Java Programming: Solving Problems with Software"
Modules:
  - 2.1 - Introduction to the Course
Lessons:
  - 2.1.6 - Object Oriented Programming with Java Specialization
Instructors:
  - Owen Astrachan
University: Duke University
Finish: false
---
# Introduction

## Instructors of the Specialization from Duke University and the University of California San Diego, Object-Oriented Programming in Java

### Duke University Instructors
#### Owen Astrachan

Hello. We want to take a moment to tell you about a specialization created by instructors from Duke University and the University of California San Diego. It's called Object-Oriented Programming in Java. 

I'm Owen Astrachan, one of the instructors from Duke University, and I'll be helping you learn this specialization. We're going to start from the beginning with Java and learn how to use it to write programs to solve a wide variety of problems. 
#### Susan Roger

I'm Susan Roger and I'm another one of your instructors from Duke University. We'll start out with the basics in Java. So while we hope you have some programming experience already, we're going to assume you don't know anything about Java, but that you are eager to learn. 

The next course of this specialization is Java programming, Arrays, Lists and Structured Data. I'm Robert Duvall and I'm excited to be teaching you about Java. In our next course, you'll dive more deeply into Java and learn to store data in more complex ways, allowing you to solve even more interesting and exciting problems. I think there is even a dinosaur in one of our examples. 
#### Drew Hilton

And I'm Drew Hilton, and I'm your fourth instructor from Duke. After you learn these Java fundamentals with us, our friends from UCSD will take over and teach you even more exciting things about Java, an object-oriented program. We'll let them introduce themselves to you now, and then you'll see them again in a couple of months. 
### UC San Diego Instructors
#### Mia Mennes

Hi, I'm Mia Mennes. I'll be one of your UC San Diego instructors. You'll meet us when you get to the third course, Object-Oriented Programming. In this course, we'll build on the programming concepts you learned from our friends at Duke, and then we'll also talk more about the object-oriented nature of Java, and how you can use it to build bigger programs to solve more complex problems. 

#### Leo Porter

Hi, I'm Leo Porter, and I'm an instructor at UC San Diego. Another topic that you'll be learning in the third course of this specialization is graphical user interfaces and event handling. With these skills, you'll be able to build interactive applications that are both easy and intuitive to use. 
#### Christine Alvarado

I'm Christine Alvarado, the final instructor on the UC San Diego team for this specialization. I want to tell you a little about the fourth course in this specialization. In that course, you'll learn how to store data more efficiently so your program can quickly perform operations on large sets of data. By the time you finish that course, you'll be a pretty good Java programmer. So, let's get started.


---
# Lesson link

1. [Object Oriented Programming with Java Specialization](https://www.coursera.org/learn/java-programming/lecture/YxFip/object-oriented-programming-with-java-specialization)